Adds Delete Elastic Cloud on Kubernetes section (#1050)
elastic/docs-content: deploy-manage/uninstall/delete-a-cloud-deployment.md

>   serverless:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    eck:
  serverless:
```

---

# Delete a cloud deployment

> This page provides instructions for deleting several types of cloud deployments, and outlines key considerations before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: Are we referring to orchestrated / managed deployments (ECH, ECK & ECE) in general as `cloud` deployments?

cc: @shainaraskas , what do you think? Sounds a bit weird, but maybe it's the way to go, I don't know.

Reviewer: I agree with @eedugon - I'd prefer this was "Delete an orchestrated deployment" 

the front matter also needs to be updated because this page applies to eck now.

Author: Thanks for the review!
I just have one more question:
What would be the most accurate way to refer to ECK-managed deployments, since they’re not technically Kubernetes Deployments?

    Narrow the list by name, ID, or choose from several other filters. To further define the list, use a combination of filters.
3. In the **Deployment Management** section, select **Restore** and then acknowledge the confirmation message.

## {{eck}} [elastic-cloud-kubernetes]

To delete a deployment managed by {{eck}}, remove the corresponding `{{es}}`, `{{kib}}`, and any other related custom resources from your Kubernetes cluster. This action deletes all associated pods and their persistent data.

> To delete an Elasticsearch deployment created with {{eck}}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To delete an {{es}} deployment created with {{eck}}:
```

Reviewer 3: “Deployment” is a bit of an overloaded term in Kubernetes, also I don't think we have the concept of "deployment" for ECK since each application can be managed individually?

Reviewer 2: I've reviewed the rest and I think just using here `{{es}} cluster` would be better, as @barkbay recommends.

In the initial introductory sentence, we can leave `To delete a deployment managed by {{eck}}` untouched, as this doc is a generic doc used for `orchestrated deployments`, understanding by orchestrated deployments the Elasticsearch clusters with their corresponding Kibana instances managed by ECE, ECH or ECK, which is something covered in the deploy and general overview docs.

    Narrow the list by name, ID, or choose from several other filters. To further define the list, use a combination of filters.
3. In the **Deployment Management** section, select **Restore** and then acknowledge the confirmation message.

## {{eck}} [elastic-cloud-kubernetes]

> To delete a deployment managed by {{eck}}, you need to remove the corresponding custom resource from your Kubernetes cluster. This action deletes all {{es}} and {{kib}} pods and their associated persistent data.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To delete a deployment managed by {{eck}}, remove the corresponding `{{es}}`, `{{kib}}`, and any other related custom resources from your Kubernetes cluster. This action deletes all associated pods and their persistent data.
```

To delete an Elasticsearch deployment created with {{eck}}:

1. Run the following command to delete the {{es}} custom resource:

   ```shell

>    kubectl delete elasticsearch <deployment-name>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   kubectl delete elasticsearch <elasticsearch-resource-name>
```

Reviewer 2: To align with kibana example below. In ECK there's no a `deployment` concept, so we can talk about deployments in general but now when referring to a specific command.

   ```
   For example:

   ```shell
   kubectl delete elasticsearch test-deployment
   ```

>    This deletes the custom resource and all associated infrastructure, such as {{es}} nodes, services, and persistent data volumes.

Reviewer 2: I think we should add a note about different options (if any) to retain data when deleting an Elasticsearch cluster.
Let's finalize this review and afterwards we will ping devs to see if they believe there's anything helpful to add in terms of `persistent data` options when deleting an Elasticsearch cluster.

Reviewer 2: @barkbay , or @pebrc  : we are adding a short section in a doc to `delete` an ECK managed deployment. Would you please review it and let us know if you think ECK (or storage classes) provide anything useful in relation with `persistent data retention` that we could add in this part as a side note?

Otherwise we will be just saying that when deleting the `Elasticsearch` resource, persistent data volumes will be deleted also.

Reviewer 3: > Would you please review it and let us know if you think ECK (or storage classes) provide anything useful in relation with persistent data retention that we could add in this part as a side note?

There is a note here about preserving volumes when a cluster is deleted: https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/blob/main/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/volume-claim-templates.md#controlling-volume-claim-deletion-k8s_controlling_volume_claim_deletion

Author: Thank you! I've added a note about this based on the volume claim deletion guide. Let me know what you think @eedugon @barkbay and @shainaraskas .

    Narrow the list by name, ID, or choose from several other filters. To further define the list, use a combination of filters.
3. In the **Deployment Management** section, select **Restore** and then acknowledge the confirmation message.

## {{eck}} [elastic-cloud-kubernetes]

To delete a deployment managed by {{eck}}, remove the corresponding {{es}}, {{kib}}, and any other related custom resources from your Kubernetes cluster. This action deletes all associated pods and their persistent data.

To delete an {{es}} cluster created with {{eck}}:

1. Run the following command to delete the {{es}} custom resource:

   ```shell
   kubectl delete elasticsearch <elasticsearch-resource-name>
   ```
   For example:

   ```shell
   kubectl delete elasticsearch test-deployment
   ```
   :::{warning}

>    This deletes the custom resource and all associated infrastructure, such as {{es}} nodes, services, and persistent data volumes. By default, this also deletes the data stored in those volumes, but you can [configure](/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/volume-claim-templates.md#k8s_controlling_volume_claim_deletion) the `volumeClaimDeletePolicy` field in the {{es}} resource manifest to retain the volumes if you plan to recreate the cluster later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This deletes the custom resource and all associated resources, such as {{es}} nodes, services, and persistent data volumes. By default, this also deletes the data stored in those volumes, but you can [configure](/deploy-manage/deploy/cloud-on-k8s/volume-claim-templates.md#k8s_controlling_volume_claim_deletion) the `volumeClaimDeletePolicy` field in the {{es}} resource manifest to retain the volumes if you plan to recreate the cluster later.
```
